---
title: 'What type of data does the Narrative The Trade Desk Connector accept?'
description: 'Hashed Email, Phone Number, UID2s, MAIDs and cookies are all data types that can be pushed to The Trade Desk''s marketplace.'
lastUpdated: '2023-09-29T13:43:52.862Z'
tags: ['Data Egress Through Connector Apps', 'The Trade Desk']
---
The Narrative TTD Connector App is a tool that allows companies to send data to TTD (The Trade Desk) in order to target their advertising efforts more effectively. To do this, the TTD Connector App supports several types of data, including:

*   UID2s (Unique Identifier 2) - These are unique user identifiers that are generated by the TTD Connector App and passed to TTD, and they can be used to track and target advertising to specific users across multiple devices. 
*   Hashed Email (SHA256 hashed emails) - The Trade Desk Connector will automatically translate SHA256 hashed emails into UID2s and send to TTD on your behalf. 
*   Hashed Phone (SHA256 hashed phone numbers) - The Trade Desk Connector will automatically translate hashed phone numbers into UID2s and send to TTD on your behalf. Please ensure your phone numbers are provided in [E.164 format](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/E.164), e.g. +12345678901. 
*   Raw Email - The Trade Desk Connector will automatically hash and translate hashed emails into UID2 and send to TTD on your behalf.
*   Raw Phone Number - The Trade Desk Connector will automatically hash and translate raw phone numbers to TTD on your behalf. 
*   MAIDs (Mobile Advertising IDs) - These are unique identifiers assigned to each mobile device, and they can be used to track and target advertising to specific devices.
*   TTD Cookies - If you are collecting IDs from The Trade Desk (UID) through a cookie sync process with TTD, we can use these cookies natively. If you want to cookie sync with Narrative and match your cookie IDs to TTD through our sync, this is also an option (reach out to your support rep to find out more.)

### Data Normalization and Hashing

When hashing phone numbers and emails, please follow and adhere to the UID2.0 requirements for [normalization and hashing](https://unifiedid.com/docs/getting-started/gs-normalization-encoding). 

If you want to read more about TTD connector, see [What is the Narrative TTD Connector App?](https://kb.narrative.io/what-is-the-narrative-ttd-connector)
