# Narrative Website Privacy Policy

This Privacy Policy is effective May 10th, 2021.

Narrative I/O, Inc. (“Narrative”, “us”, “we”, “our”, and “ours”) is committed to protecting your privacy. The Privacy Policy (the “Privacy Policy”) applies to data collected by us from you (“you”, “your”, “yours”, and “Client”) through our proprietary software (the “Software”), content and related documentation and information (collectively with the Software, the “Services”) and through our website (https://narrative.io/, the “Site”) including all content and functionality available through the Site. By registering for an account and accessing or using any of our Services, you acknowledge that you accept the practices and policies outlined in this Privacy Policy. Terms not defined herein shall have the meaning as provided in Narrative’s Terms of Service and incorporated herein.

WE MAY MODIFY THIS PRIVACY POLICY AT ANY TIME, IN OUR SOLE DISCRETION, AND SUCH MODIFICATION SHALL BE EFFECTIVE IMMEDIATELY UPON EITHER POSTING OF THE MODIFIED PRIVACY POLICY ON THE SITE OR NOTIFYING YOU. Use of information we collect now is subject to the Privacy Policy in effect at the time such information is collected. YOU AGREE TO REVIEW THIS PRIVACY POLICY PERIODICALLY TO ENSURE THAT YOU ARE AWARE OF ANY MODIFICATIONS. YOUR CONTINUED ACCESS OR USE OF THE SITE SERVICES AND/OR SOFTWARE SHALL BE DEEMED YOUR CONCLUSIVE ACCEPTANCE OF THE MODIFIED PRIVACY POLICY.

## Information Covered in This Privacy Policy
This Privacy Policy covers Narrative's treatment of Personal Information (as defined herein) that Narrative gathers when you access the Site and when you use any part of the Service. This Privacy Policy also covers Narrative's treatment of any Personal Information that Narrative's business partners share with Narrative. This Privacy Policy does not apply to the practices of companies that Narrative does not own or control, or to individuals that Narrative does not employ or manage.

## Collection of Your Information
In order to access the Service, a Narrative account (an “Account”) will be created for you. In order to create an Account, you must provide certain personally identifiable information such as, your name, e-mail address, addresses, and telephone number. Any information that can readily identify a person is considered “Personal Information” and includes any personally sensitive information as well such as political opinions and religious or philosophical beliefs. It is your responsibility to give us current, complete, truthful and accurate information, including Personal Information, and to keep such information up to date.

Narrative will not be responsible for any problems or liability related to inaccurate or incomplete Personal Information, whether due to your failure to update such Personal Information or otherwise.

In addition to the Personal Information, we may collect the following information you provide (collectively with Personal Information, the “Information”): certain standard browser information, such as your browser type and IP address, and pages of the Site visited and access times.

In using and/or accessing the Services or the Software, you expressly authorize us to collect and use your Information in connection with the Services. You further acknowledge and agree that Narrative may, but is not obligated to, maintain copies of your Information indefinitely, or delete any or all Information, at our sole discretion. When you receive promotional e-mails or newsletters from Narrative, if any, we may use customized links or similar technologies to determine whether such newsletters or e-mail has been opened and which links you click. This information is used to provide you more focused e-mail communications and/or other information.

## Use of Your Personal Information
Narrative collects and uses your Information to operate and improve the Site and better deliver the Services. These uses may include performing analysis aimed at improving the Service and making the Site or Services more user friendly by reducing the need for you to repeatedly enter the same information. Narrative may also use your Information to communicate with you, such as providing you with mandatory notices or discretionary notices about the Service. From time to time, Narrative may also send you surveys or promotional mailings to inform you of other products or services available from Narrative and its affiliates.

Narrative may support the Site and the Service by selling non-Personal Information (e.g. data that does not personally identify you, such as demographic data such as ZIP code or aggregated data, or Personal Information, such as an email address, that has been processed through a “hash” function which reformats the data into an irreversible non-Personal Information form) to third parties. Narrative is headquartered in the United States of America. Information may be accessed by us or transferred to us in the United States or to our affiliates, business partners, or service providers elsewhere in the world. By providing us with Information, you consent to this transfer. We will protect the privacy and security of Information according to our Privacy Policy, regardless of where it is processed or stored.

## Disclosing of Your Personal Information to Third Parties
Except as described in this Privacy Policy, Narrative does not sell, rent, lease or disclose your Personal Information, and your Personal Information will be used only by Narrative and its controlled subsidiaries and affiliates, and your Personal Information will not be disclosed to any other third party without your consent.

Narrative may hire other companies to provide limited administrative and communication services on Narrative’ behalf, such as hosting Sites, the processing and delivery of mailings or providing customer support. Narrative has the right to disclose your Personal Information to these third party companies for the purpose of administering and maintaining the Site’s features, functions and operations. Those companies will be permitted to obtain only such Personal Information as necessary for them to deliver the respective services, and Narrative does not authorize these companies to use your Personal Information except for the sole purpose of providing those services requested by Narrative.

Narrative may use third party analytics providers and products to obtain, compile and analyze Information about how Clients are using and interacting with Narrative and/or the Services. Narrative may provide Information to these analytics providers for the purpose of obtaining statistics and other information about how Clients are using and interacting with Narrative. These analytics providers may use a variety of established or new tracking technologies or tools (including, without limitation, cookies, web beacons, HTTP cache, local shared objects and persistent identifiers) to recognize your computer or device and/or to collect or compile this information. Narrative has no control over the technologies, tools or practices of the third parties that providing analytics products and services to Narrative. Narrative may use third party transcription service provides and products to transcribe information submitted or collected through the Services.

You understand and agree that Narrative may access and/or disclose Personal Information about you or your Account without your prior consent if Narrative has a good faith belief that such action is necessary to: (i) comply with legal process or other legal requirements of any governmental authority; (ii) protect and defend the rights or property of Narrative (including the enforcement of our agreements); (iii) enforce the Terms of Service; (v) operate or conduct maintenance and repair of the Site or equipment as authorized by law; (vi) act in urgent circumstances to protect the personal safety of users of Narrative Site or members of the public; or (v) comply with a bankruptcy, merger, acquisition, transfer of control, joint venture of other business combination. Narrative is not required to question or contest the validity of any search warrant, subpoena or other similar governmental request that we receive. In some cases, we may choose to buy or sell assets. In these types of transactions, user information is typically one of the business assets that is transferred. Moreover, if Narrative, or substantially all of its assets, were acquired, user information would be one of the assets that is transferred or acquired by a third party. You acknowledge that such transfers may occur, and that any acquirer of Narrative may continue to use your Information as set forth in this Privacy Policy.

Narrative may use a third party service provider to process payment transactions. Narrative does not collect, store or otherwise have access to credit card information. You should review such third party service provider’s privacy policy to ensure that you are comfortable with their use and disclosure of your information.

## Security of Your Personal Information
The Personal Information Narrative collects is securely stored within our web servers and database (including those hosted on third party servers on behalf of Narrative), and we use standard, industry-wide practices such as firewalls, encryption, and (in certain areas) Secure Socket Layers (“SSL”) for protecting your information. However, as effective as encryption technology is, keep in mind that no security system is impenetrable. It may be possible for third parties to intercept or access Personal Information in spite of these measures. Narrative cannot guarantee the security of Personal Information and cannot be held responsible for unauthorized access to such Personal Information.

## Information Collected Automatically
We may receive and store certain types of information whenever you interact with the Site and/or Service. We may choose to automatically receive and record information on our server logs from your browser including your IP address, cookie information, and the page you requested. Narrative uses "cookies" to collect non-personal data and information. Cookies are small text files a Site uses to recognize repeat users, and is typically placed on your hard disk by a web page server. Cookies contain information that can later be read by a web server in the domain that issued the cookie to you. The way cookies function is by assigning a number to the user that has no meaning outside of the assigning Site. You should be aware that Narrative cannot control the use of cookies (or the resulting information) by Narrative's third-party partners. You have the ability to accept or decline cookies. Most web browsers automatically accept cookies, but you can usually modify your browser setting to decline cookies if you prefer. If you choose to decline cookies, you may not be able to sign in or use other interactive features of the Site and Service that depend on cookies.

## Collection and Use of Children's Personal Information.
The Site is intended for general audiences and Narrative does not knowingly collect any Personal Information from children.

## E-mail Communications
In using the Site and providing us with your email address, we may send you daily or weekly e-mails. If you do not want to receive e-mail or other mail from us, please notify us by e-mail at privacy@narrative.io and include sufficient information for us to identify your Account, including your name, email address and the specifics of your request. However, after you unsubscribe to cease receiving e-mails, Narrative may still contact you via e-mail for administrative or informational purposes, including messages regarding the administration of your account and/or any services or events to which you have registered.

## Questions or Comments Regarding this Privacy Policy
Narrative welcomes any questions or comments you may have regarding this Privacy Policy or if you do not understand any information about how we collect, maintain, use, or share Information. Any such questions or comments should be submitted via email to privacy@narrative.io. We will make every effort to resolve or answer your concern.

# Narrative Services Privacy Policy

This Privacy Policy is effective September 24, 2016.

Narrative I/O, Inc. (“Narrative”) encourages you (“you”, “your”, “yours” and the “Client”) to read and learn more about the rules and terms of our privacy policy (“Privacy Policy”). By accessing Narrative’s proprietary software (the “Software”) or using any of our services (collectively, with the Software, the “Service”), you acknowledge that you accept the practices and policies outlined in this Privacy Policy. Terms not defined herein shall have the meaning as provided in the Services Agreement entered into by and between you and Narrative and incorporated herein.

WE MAY MODIFY THIS PRIVACY POLICY AT ANY TIME, IN OUR SOLE DISCRETION, AND SUCH MODIFICATION SHALL BE EFFECTIVE IMMEDIATELY UPON EITHER POSTING OF THE MODIFIED PRIVACY POLICY ON THE SITE OR NOTIFYING YOU. Use of information we collect now is subject to the Privacy Policy in effect at the time such information is collected. YOU AGREE TO REVIEW THIS PRIVACY POLICY PERIODICALLY TO ENSURE THAT YOU ARE AWARE OF ANY MODIFICATIONS. YOUR CONTINUED ACCESS OR USE OF THE SITE SERVICES AND/OR SOFTWARE SHALL BE DEEMED YOUR CONCLUSIVE ACCEPTANCE OF THE MODIFIED PRIVACY POLICY.

## Collection of Customer Data
This Privacy Policy covers Narrative's treatment of Client Level Data and Third Party Level Data which may, at times, include or be linked to Personal Information (as defined herein) of Client’s customer (the “Customer”). This Privacy Policy does not apply to the practices of companies that Narrative does not own or control, or to individuals that Narrative does not employ or manage.

The Service allows Narrative to collect and analyze Client Level Data supplied by Client, pursuant to a Service Agreement and an applicable Order Schedule, and helps Client evaluate and understand such data. This data may include such information as a Customer’s name, address, email address, site preference and phone number if permitted by Client through Client’s privacy notice or policy provided to its Customers. Any information that can readily identify a person is considered “Personal Information” and includes any personally sensitive information as well such as political opinions and religious or philosophical beliefs. Non-personally identifiable information such as IP address, zip codes, browser type, and geo-location (latitude and longitude) are additionally collected and made part of Client Level Data, as applicable, pursuant to an Order Schedule. Narrative processes and analyzes Client Level Data and allows Client (i) to license its own Client Level Data to other Third Party Recipients through the Services, or (ii) purchase other Third Party Level Data through the Services. You understand and agree that all licensing and purchasing of Client Level Data and Third Party Level Data, as applicable, are bound by and subject to the terms of a separate Service Agreement. Narrative does not retain or use Customer Data for its own internal business purposes unless permitted by our Clients.

In using and/or accessing the Services or the Software, you expressly authorize us to (a) collect and use Client Level Data in connection with the Services, and (b) license out your Client Level Data to other Clients through the Services. You acknowledge and agree that Narrative may, but is not obligated to, maintain copies of your Client Level Data indefinitely, or delete any or all Client Level Data, at our sole discretion.

Narrative is headquartered in the United States of America. Information may be accessed by us or transferred to us in the United States or to our affiliates, business partners, or service providers elsewhere in the world. By providing us with Client Level Data, you consent to this transfer. We will protect the privacy and security of Client Level Data according to our Privacy Policy, regardless of where it is processed or stored.

## Disclosing of Customer Data to Third Parties
Except as set forth in this Privacy, including the license to Clients of Third Party Level Data, Narrative does not sell, rent, lease or disclose Customer Data, and Customer Data will be used only by Narrative and its controlled subsidiaries and affiliates. Customer Data will not be disclosed to any other third party without your consent. Narrative may use third party transcription service provides and products to transcribe information submitted or collected through the Services. Customer Data, including any Personal Information contained therein, may also be shared with certain third-party companies and individuals that help facilitate technical and administrative aspects of the Service (e.g., credit card processing), or perform functions related to the administration of Narrative (e.g. hosting services). These third parties perform tasks on our behalf and are contractually obligated not to disclose or use Customer Data for any other purpose, and to employ adequate security measures to prevent unauthorized access to such data. However, Narrative is not responsible in the event that Customer Data, including any Personal Information contained therein, is disclosed at a result of a breach or security lapse by any such third party.

You understand and agree that Narrative may access and/or disclose Customer Data (including Personal Information) without your prior consent if Narrative has a good faith belief that such action is necessary to: (a) comply with legal process or other legal requirements of any governmental authority; (b) protect and defend the rights or property of Narrative (including the enforcement of our agreements); (c) enforce the terms of the applicable Service Agreement; (v) operate or conduct maintenance and repair of the Narrative website, Services, or equipment as authorized by law; (d) act in urgent circumstances to protect the personal safety of Clients or members of the public; or (e) comply with a bankruptcy, merger, acquisition, transfer of control, joint venture of other business combination. Narrative is not required to question or contest the validity of any search warrant, subpoena or other similar governmental request that we receive. In some cases, we may choose to buy or sell assets. In these types of transactions, user information is typically one of the business assets that is transferred. Moreover, if Narrative, or substantially all of its assets, were acquired, Customer Data, including any Personal Information contained therein, would be one of the assets that is transferred or acquired by a third party. You acknowledge that such transfers may occur, and that any acquirer of Narrative may continue to use Customer Data as set forth in this Privacy Policy.

## Security of Customer Data
The Customer Data Narrative collects is securely stored within our web servers and database (including those hosted on third party servers on behalf of Narrative), and we use standard, industry-wide practices such as firewalls, encryption, and (in certain areas) Secure Socket Layers (“SSL”) for protecting your information. However, as effective as encryption technology is, keep in mind that no security system is impenetrable. It may be possible for third parties to intercept or access Customer Data in spite of these measures. Narrative cannot guarantee the security of Customer Data and cannot be held responsible for unauthorized access to such Customer Data.

## Notice to Customers
You understand, acknowledge and agree that Narrative contractually requires you to (i) abide by all applicable state, federal and international laws, rules and regulations, including all terms and conditions set forth in the Service Agreement, as well as other applicable laws relating to privacy, data collection and transfer of Personal Information, and (ii) obtain any necessary consents from applicable third parties, including from your Customers, in connection with such use of its Services. You agree to comply with all applicable law, rules, and regulations regarding the collection of your Client Level Data, including, but not limited to, (a) posting an easily accessible privacy notice on your website (which shall be linked to conspicuously from the home page(s) of your website) which contains language that clearly conveys to your Customers that you collect data regarding Customer’s online activities over time and across non-affiliated web sites, mobile applications, or online services, as applicable, and that indicates such collected data (1) may include Customer Personal Information, and (2) is disclosed to Narrative in connection with the Services; and (b) providing links to industry-developed websites or other tools that permit your Customer to opt out of such data collection practices. You further agree that Narrative cannot be held responsible for any Client’s failure to make these disclosures on its website or for any Client’s use or collection of Client Level Data that is not permitted under this Privacy Policy or otherwise.

## Collection and Use of Children's Personal Information
The Services are intended for general audiences and Narrative does not knowingly collect any Customer Data, including Personal Information, from children. You represent and warrant that your Client Level Data will not contain any Personal Information of children.

## Questions or Comments Regarding this Privacy Policy
Narrative welcomes any questions or comments you may have regarding this Privacy Policy or if you do not understand any information about how we collect, maintain, use, or share Customer Data and Personal Information. Any such questions or comments should be submitted via email to privacy@narrative.io. We will make every effort to resolve or answer your concern.