---
title: 'Buyer Studio: Subscription Cadence'
description: 'Customize the timeline of your data deliveries. '
lastUpdated: '2021-12-08T21:53:23.193Z'
tags: ['Buying Data', 'Buyer Studio']
---
### Overview

Subscription Cadence in Buyer Studio supports **one time, hourly, daily, weekly, and monthly** cadence options. Cadence options appear at step five during the checkout process (between destination and payment). The cadence dropdown defaults to weekly to make sure there is no way to set up a subscription without a delivery cadence.

### Subscription Cadence and Budget

Subscription Cadence and budget are not tied together. Budgets will remain monthly while orders are delivered on one of the five unique timelines. For example, if I set up a subscription with a weekly delivery cadence and a budget of $500, I will receive weekly delivery drops until the $500 budget is maxed out. Maxing out my budget could happen at any point during the month. The same logic applies to hourly and daily delivery cadences. If I set up a subscription with a cadence and there is no new data to deliver, I will not receive a file. 

### First Data Delivery

Data drops are not based on the day users set up their subscription, but instead Sundays for weekly orders and the first of the month for monthly orders. If I set up a weekly delivery cadence on Wednesday, I will receive data that day, then again on Sunday. From that moment forward I will only receive my order every subsequent Sunday. The data I received on Wednesday will not be included in my first Sunday order. The same logic applies to monthly orders. If I set up an order on the 17th, I will receive data on the 17th (that day) and then the first of every subsequent month after the 17th. 

There are warnings set up during checkout to help aid this process: 

*   Weekly Order = "you will receive data today and then every subsequent Sunday"
*   Monthly Order = "you will receive data today and then the first of every month"
