---
title: 'What types of data can be included in Data Streams?'
description: 'We currently support any form of text-based data from a CSV file. '
lastUpdated: '2023-04-14T17:21:05.410Z'
tags: ['Data Streams Marketplace', 'General']
---
Data streams are becoming an increasingly popular way of delivering real-time data to users. At Narrative, we recognize the importance of providing our clients with a wide range of data types that can be included in their data streams. This allows them to make more informed decisions based on the most current and relevant information available.

Currently, we support any form of text-based data from a CSV file. This includes numerical data, as well as any other type of information that can be represented in a text format. Our platform's data suppliers offer a variety of data types that can be consumed through our marketplace. This means that Narrative users can access data on topics ranging from finance and marketing to health and sports.

Suppliers can publish their data for consumption in Buyer Studio using access rules, or package their data in a data stream for consumption in data stream marketplace, their data shop, or a third-party marketplace. This allows them to monetize their data in a way that best suits their business needs. It also provides buyers with a range of options for accessing the data they need.

In addition to supporting CSV files, we are continually working to improve our platform's capabilities. Today, Seller Studio can infer any CSV file, making it easy for users to get started with their data streams. However, we are currently working on adding JSON and Parquet functionality to our platform. This will allow us to support even more data types, making Narrative an even more powerful tool for data collaboration.

Whether you're a data supplier looking to monetize your data or a buyer looking for the most up-to-date information, Narrative's data stream marketplace has everything you need. With support for a wide range of data types and continuous improvements to our platform, we are committed to providing our clients with the best possible experience.
