---
title: 'Narrative’s History: How We Got Here'
description: 'A look back at the inception of Narrative and the evolution of data collaboration platforms.'
lastUpdated: '2024-01-31'
tags: ['Welcome to Narrative', 'The Basics']
---

## Infrastructure Development

The journey to the creation of Data Collaboration Platforms traces back to the early 2000s, marking a significant period in the evolution of "big data" management. Silicon Valley pioneers led the charge by open-sourcing software solutions designed to simplify the collection, storage, and analysis of vast data sets. Initially, these technologies were embraced by large corporations seeking to optimize their data management strategies. However, the advent of cloud platforms, such as Amazon Web Services (AWS), democratized access to these tools, extending their benefits to mid-sized companies.

## Talent Acquisition

The adoption of these advanced software platforms necessitated a paradigm shift from traditional database management to more complex and scalable solutions. This transition unveiled a talent gap within organizations. The infrastructure and the challenges it aimed to address required expertise beyond the capabilities of the existing workforce. In response, companies began to onboard a new wave of talent specialized in data science, engineering, and analytics. These professionals brought with them the skills to harness tools far more sophisticated than Microsoft Excel, paving the way for innovations in predictive analytics, machine learning, and artificial intelligence.

## Data Deficiency

With a robust infrastructure and a skilled talent pool in place, companies soon recognized a critical hurdle: the insufficiency of their internal data. To continue the analogy, if the infrastructure represented the car and the data scientists the drivers, there remained a pressing need for fuel — data. This realization marked the third phase of the industry's maturation, highlighting the necessity for a streamlined approach to data acquisition.

In 2016, Narrative emerged as a solution to this challenge, founding the first Data Collaboration Platform. Our mission was to empower companies with the tools to easily acquire the data they needed, akin to fueling their cars for the race ahead. By bridging the gap between data infrastructure and data availability, Narrative set out to transform the landscape of data collaboration, making it easier for organizations to leverage the full potential of their analytics and AI capabilities.

Narrative's inception was not just about starting a company; it was about envisioning a future where data collaboration is seamless, efficient, and integral to every organization's success. As we continue to evolve, our commitment remains the same: to drive innovation and enable our customers to harness the power of data like never before.
