---
title: "Meet Narrative at CES 2024: Revolutionizing Data Collaboration"
shortTitle: CES 2024
startDate: 2024-01-9
endDate: 2024-01-12
dates: January 9-12, 2024
location: Las Vegas, NV
subtitle: Join us at CES 2024 to experience how Narrative redefines the landscape of data collaboration. Discover a world where data procurement, distribution, and collaboration are efficient, intuitive, and user-friendly.
image: /img/events/2024/ces-2024.png
attendees: [tim-mahlman, andrew-slome, scott-bender]
---

Explore the future of data collaboration and how Narrative can help you thrive in a cookieless future, achieve better identify resolution, fuel AI models, and much more.

## AI-enabled Data Collaboration

As industry pioneers, we're excited to showcase our revolutionary AI-driven, privacy-centric Data Collaboration Platform at this year's IAB Annual Leadership Meeting. Discover how we're turning challenges into opportunities, making cumbersome data processes a thing of the past.

## Discover, Aggregate, Automate

Experience firsthand how Narrative simplifies the complexities of data collaboration. Our platform is designed to help you effortlessly discover data partners, aggregate and filter data from myriad sources, and automate complex transactions. Whether you're a non-technical user or a data wizard, our intuitive web application and powerful AI-assistant, Rosetta, are here to transform your data journey.

## Unparalleled Data Control and Compliance

Your data, your rules. We prioritize your data's security and compliance, offering SOC2-compliant measures, advanced encryption, and granular access controls. Dive into our clean room functionalities and discover how we ensure the protection of sensitive data without compromising on collaboration efficiency.

## Who Benefits from Narrative?

Whether you're a marketing expert or a data engineer, our platform caters to all. Our clients range across industries, including marketing, retail, finance, and tech, leveraging our platform for unparalleled data collaboration.
