---
title: About Narrative
description: Narrative is an innovate Data Collaboration Platform.
tags:
  - key-concepts
---

## Overview

**Company Legal Name**: Narrative I/O, Inc.
**Founded**: etc
**Most impactful/notable recent traction**
Narrative’s innovative Data Collaboration Platform powers a wider variety and larger scale of data solutions than ever before, reflecting the growing demand for efficient data collaboration software.
We expect strong growth in 2024 and beyond, driven by several key developments:
Enterprise Expansion: Our largest customers continue to scale up and diversify their use of the platform. This includes major projects involving new data types and integrations that will significantly extend our platform's functionality and visibility.
Strategic Partnership with The Trade Desk: The Trade Desk has selected Narrative as a strategic partner and preferred channel for data onboarding. Our Trade Desk Connector App, designed for efficiency and usability, offers superior functionality and highly competitive pricing compared to traditional onboarding providers.
Native Snowflake App: Our strategic partnership with Snowflake continues to evolve, and our Snowflake Native App gives all Snowflake customers turnkey access to Narrative’s powerful suite of collaboration tools, including the ability to onboard data directly to The Trade Desk.
Rosetta AI & NQL: Years of development has culminated in NQL (Narrative’s proprietary SQL extension, built to enable data collaboration and governance) and a technical infrastructure optimized for LLM-powered, natural-language interaction. Non-engineers can already achieve 90% of their needs by interacting with our AI agent, Rosetta.
Narrative Anywhere (“On Prem”): Later in 2024, Narrative will be releasing our “on-prem” solution, Narrative Anywhere, that allows customers organizations to leverage our advanced data normalization, collaboration, and governance capabilities without the need to transfer data outside their premises.
